---
layout: page
title: Entanglement distribution in quantum complex networks
icon: research
permalink: research/Entanglement distribution in quantum complex networks/index.html
---

## Abstract

This thesis deals with the study of quantum networks with a complex structure,
the implications this structure has in the distribution of entanglement and
how their functioning can be enhanced by operating in the quantum regime. We
first consider a complex network of bipartite states, both pure and mixed, and
study the distribution of long-distance entanglement. Then, we move to a
network with noisy channels and study the creation and distribution of large,
multipartite states.

The work contained in this thesis is primarily motivated by the idea that the
interplay between quantum information and complex networks may give rise to a
new understanding and characterization of natural systems. Complex networks
are of particular importance in communication infrastructures, as most present
telecommunication networks have a complex structure. In the case of quantum
networks, which are the necessary framework for distributed quantum processing
and for quantum communication, it is very plausible that in the future they
acquire a complex topology resembling that of existing networks, or even that
methods will be developed to use current infrastructures in the quantum
regime.

A central task in quantum networks is to devise strategies to distribute
entanglement among its nodes. In the first part of this thesis, we consider
the distribution of bipartite entanglement as an entanglement percolation
process in a complex network. Within this approach, perfect entanglement is
established probabilistically between two arbitrary nodes. We see that for
large networks, the probability of doing so is a constant strictly greater
than zero (and independent of the size of the network) if the initial amount
of entanglement is above a certain critical value. Quantum mechanics offer
here the possibility to change the structure of the network without need to
establish new, "physical" channels. By a proper local transformation of the
network, the critical entanglement can be decreased and the probability
increased. We apply this transformation to complex network models with
arbitrary degree distribution.

In the case of a noisy network of mixed states, we see that for some classes
of states, the same approach of entanglement percolation can be used. For
general mixed states, we consider a limited-path-length entanglement
percolation constrained by the amount of noise in the connections. We see how
complex networks still offer a great advantage in the probability of
connecting two nodes.

In the second part, we move to the multipartite scenario. We study the
creation and distribution of graph states with a structure that mimic the
underlying communication network. In this case, we use an arbitrary complex
network of noisy channels, and consider that operations and measurements are
also noisy. We propose an efficient scheme to distribute and purify small
subgraphs, which are then merged to reproduce the desired state. We compare
this approach with two bipartite protocols that rely on a central station and
full knowledge of the network structure. We show that the fidelity of the
generated graphs can be written as the partition function of a classical
disordered spin system (a spin glass), and its decay rate is the analog of the
free energy. Applying the three protocols to a one-dimensional network and to
complex networks, we see that they are all comparable, and in some cases the
proposed subgraph protocol, which needs only local information of the network,
performs even better.

## Files

- [edist_qcn.pdf]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/edist_qcn.pdf)

## Links

- [Thesis at the TDX](http://tdx.cat/handle/10803/107850)
